Here we are inside Unity.
I've got a fresh project where I've installed the mini VCs framework and imported the samples.
Here's a file structure for the version that has many.
We've got resources, including that text file we're going to load to simulate a service layer call.
We've got a science folder with our one scene and then we've got runtime scripts.
We've not yet taken a look at the structure of the MVCs code in a sample, so let's do that.
Now, starting at the bottom, we have the example file itself that's attached to a game object in the
scene.
Then we have the log in mini class.
This is the highest level structure of the MVCs world.
Then, as per typical convention, I create a folder for each the model view controller and service.
Inside the View, there's one class, the login view.
Inside the service, there's one class, the login service.
Inside the model.
We've got two classes, a user data class, as well as the main model itself for the log in inside the
controller folder.
I have the log in controller, which is the main controller for the project.
It's also appropriate to have a subfolder here for all of the commands for a project.
I'll talk a little bit more about commands since we haven't taken a look at them yet in previous code
sessions.
Now, while this is a relatively simple example, it would be reasonable in a production project to
follow the same folder structure and we would see each of the folders get populated with multiple models,
multiple views and services, lots of controllers, probably as well as a real robust folder full of
commands.
You can think of the command manager as a radio station that's able to broadcast to any of the concerns.
So high level messages that are appropriate there, things like in this case, logging in, logging
out, clearing the screen.
If we had such a feature, those would sit here as individual commands.
So here we are running the mini example.
As the hint shows, there's a suggested password.
That's the only password that's acceptable here.
We're checking against a local file.
I have correct data there and I'll submit and we see success.
What's happening there is the service layer loads a local text file and it just makes sure that what
the user typed into the UI matches what's in that text file.
It's a very simplified substitute for some sort of complex back end interaction.
Let's dig into the code, starting with the high level example.
Here's the example itself, which is a behavior sitting on a game object in the scene.
Now, many MVCs does not require that any of its concerns be honored behaviors.
But in this specific example, as is probably common in your work as well, you have the view b amount
of behavior.
So an easy way to bring that into the fold here is to have that sit as amount of behavior on a game
object in the scene, drag it in as a serialized reference here, and then be able to pass it into the
log in mini constructor as we see here.
Let's take a quick look at the scene just to see how that's wired up.
So here in the scene I have to log in View selected.
You can see in the Inspector window there's a login view script that's sitting on this game object.
Now, with the example itself selected, we can see a serialized field sitting there waiting for a reference
to the log in view.
That's really the only wiring up that we need in the scene itself.
There's alternative ways to do this, but it's very familiar for us to have mono behaviors like a view
sit in the scene and drag a reference into a serialized field here.
Back in the example here inside the start, after we create the class and pass in the view we simply
initialize.
That's it from this level.
Let's take a look at the next class.
Here we are inside the log in mini class.
This sample is pretty conventional in that it takes a context, model, view controller and service
one of each so I can take advantage of the base class here.
Many NPCs extend it and pass in the strong types for each of the concerns that I want inside the constructor
I just pass in the view and inside the initialize I do the bulk of the work.
Here I create the context, model, view and controller.
Notice that the controller is the only constructor that takes several arguments.
This gives us a hint here that the controller is a bit more knowing and more significant in the structure.
And finally we initialize each of its parts.
That's it for this class.
Now, in previous sample code we step through each the model view controller and service.
For the sake of brevity here, the service layer is very similar.
Please take a look at the code if you'd like and also the model as well.
So the unique aspects here are the view and the controller.
Let's take a look at each.
Here's the login view.
So remember this is sitting on a game object in the scene.
It's not created on the fly like some of the other concerns in this particular demo.
I'll scroll down here so we can take a look at the high level of the class and then I'll step through
it line by line.
First, we have some custom unity events.
This is not really a specific flow to this mini MVCs.
It's a general practice.
Any time you want to send a unity event within Unity and you want to send a long type to parameters,
you always subclass as we see here, it isn't really important that we look at the details of the classes
here because there is no implementation.
We just declare the class as a way to give it a name and declare what subtype it would have inside.
For example, the log in Unity event accepts the user data whenever it's invoked and passes that info
alone.
So this is the first view that we've seen that extends mono behavior.
Remember that with many MVCs, using mounted behaviors is completely optional, but probably in each
sample of any complexity and certainly in a production use case, you would extend mono behavior for
your views.
That's because the role of the view is to deal with user input and user interface elements.
And in unity, it just makes more sense to have mono behaviors be involved.
Next, we declare properties and here fields.
Now notice these UI elements are the same as the non mini MVC version we saw before.
The idea is that they look and behave the same each of the samples.
So you're going to see a lot of familiar code here from the last section here in the initialize.
We've got a couple interesting things happening.
So first we have a block of UI buttons and we're subscribing to the unity events that we would see in
a non mini MVCs version.
This is pretty standard.
Any time you want to hear back from Unity's UI, you subscribe to its unity events.
But this second section is unique to this framework.
Here we use the context which is available from any concern and access.
The command Manager.
Now again, I'll talk a bit more about command manager here during this particular sample to get deeper.
The command manager sits on the context and the context is passed around to all of the concerns.
One of the things you can do with the command manager is subscribe to listen to different notifications
that are coming in as commands.
The other is that you can invoke them.
Now remember, none of the concerns that either adds these or invokes them needs to know who is listening
or who else is in invoking the command manager is the middleman that sits between the two layers of
the observer and the sender.
So what's nice about that is you can blindly send out messaging something like a radio station that's
just broadcasting out into the sky.
And anywhere that someone happens to be tuning into that frequency or that specific command, they get
the message.
And something we see as we go down below the code lines in this class, we often use the view to ask
unity.
UI was something clicked and then we translate that into a command.
We'll see how that gets done here.
As with the previous example, anytime the user types into the text fields or clears it out, it's just
updates the login button.
The idea is that you would validate if the user submission is potentially correct.
We simply check, is the field empty or is it not empty?
Whenever the login button is clicked, we translate that to a view event and we dispatch it out.
We don't know from this scope who is listening or if anyone is listening.
But as we get into the next section, we'll see who is the subscriber here.
Same thing.
When the logout button is clicked, we send that message out.
So we're translating some kind of a local unity event into a custom view event.
As part of a general best practice.
Whatever we subscribe to inside the destroy, here we unsubscribe.
Now, up above in this class, we subscribe to listen to the Logout command and here the view as saying
Any time any concern sends the logout command, I'll capture that and I'll clear out my fields and I
will update my button Click ability.
And the View is also listening to log in submission.
Whenever that happens, it gets the UI prepared for submitting and the views also listening to whenever
login is completed.
This is the largest method I think in this particular class, but it works exactly like the non mini
version.
So you can go look at that one and see how I describe the details here.
We're really doing the same things.
Just for example sake, I have a bit of extra code here.
So the highlighted portion here is showing that each command comes along with any data that's relevant.
So when the login is completed, we have the user data and we can show that out to the UI if we like,
just to demonstrate a complete alternative to that approach from any scope, including the view, we
can ask the context, Hey, go get me this particular model.
It will get that model if it exists and we can do anything we like, including debug logging out those
values.
So this is another example of the flexibility.
The convention here is probably it's best that you send messaging along with the command.
So there's less coupling, there's less knowledge of this concern about the structure of another concern.
The highlighted code here is suggesting that, hey, the view knows which data to look at in which model,
which could be considered overreach.
But depending on the use case you have and also depending how your UI is structured, it may make perfectly
good sense for your view to go into particular models for rendering that data.
We don't want the view to directly affect the model data.
That would be a bad practice.
That's the end of the View class here.
Now, before we move on, I want to take a moment and look into the command manager and the command
structure because we haven't looked at that in previous example code before.
So remember here in the same class up above in the initialize, we're adding command listeners.
So let's take a look at what exactly that does.
We'll start looking at the context for review.
So remember that the context class is important because it has the model locator and the command manager
Relevant to this discussion is the command manager.
You can think of the command manager as a list of different commands that have been registered.
So it's API allows you to add in listening to those commands and invoke any commands to allow for flexibility.
The command must be an AI command, but notice that that I command it's mostly a marker interface.
We don't have any guaranteed implementation depending on the needs you have.
You may want to have an alternative implementation here requiring some sort of execute and undo functionality.
But for the base use case that I have in these samples, I'm just passing it along as a dumb object
of parameters.
Let's take a look at one of the examples that I use in the case of the log in submitted.
Let's look at the structure.
We can see that the log in submitted command like it's required implements the interface of I command
as far as the implementation inside its custom to its own needs.
So all it really does is have a constructor that takes exactly the data we need in this type of operation
and holds it here locally.
In a moment we'll see where it gets invoked.
But remember, it's the view that is listening for this command and whenever log in submitted command
happens, it responds by updating the UI and using that user data that's passed along that we see here
to help populate the UI.
That's it for the login view.
So back here at the high level login mini class, we've looked at the view.
Now finally we'll look at the controller.
That's the last piece of the puzzle.
The login controller extends base controller and as with any case, using the mini MVCs, extending
the base is optional.
Here we're getting some free functionality, which I talked about in earlier code samples, so I'll
skip that for now.
Inside the initialize, the controller has references.
Now to the other major concerns.
Notice what we do here is we wire up listening to any of those events that are interesting to us.
We listen to the model, we listen to the view and we listen to the service.
You can begin to see that the controller is the glue.
It's the middle person that sits between these different layers, listens to an event of one, and as
we'll see in a moment, is be able to send communication out.
Here's a perfect example.
We're listening to The View log in, and when that happens, we invoke a command.
So imagine kind of listening with two cups and a long string, a very coupled type of communication.
Here the controller is listening directly to the view for a specific event to happen.
That's what we see here.
Then it's going to translate that to a much more broad radio station type.
Broadcast when it sends the command out?
Absolutely.
Any concern in this whole project that has access to the same context, which all four of our tiers
have access to the same context, we'd be able to subscribe and listen to this log in submitted command
that gets fired here.
And that consuming scope doesn't necessarily know which scope sent it.
And we think of that as a good practice that is decoupled communication.
So again, we invoke that command and then we tell the service to start the doing the login process.
Whenever the log out happens, we translate that view event out into a command When the service is complete
and it has logged in successfully, we're able to update the model directly, which is a best practice.
Controllers can read and write to the model.
And finally we send out a command.
Now you have lots of different ways that you can structure these communications.
For example, here, instead of directly updating the model and sending the command, we could, in
theory, just update the model and any concern that wants to know when the model is updated would directly
subscribe to the model that's feasible.
Another alternative is, instead of this controller directly impacting the model by setting values,
we could only send out the command, and some other concern would be responsible to listen to that command
and update the model.
Now, for a simple project where we have one model and one controller, what I'm showing here is probably
most appropriate, but in a much larger project, you may have a controller and model pair for different
areas of the application.
So one controller might just say, Hey, I know when I get this particular message in, I just go tell
with a command to the other concerns how they should be reacting.
This allows you to decouple even the controller logic into multiple controllers.
And finally, any time the model changes, we send out a command.
That's it for this complete demo.
Let's take another look at the running app.
So here we are.
Finally, we'll take another look at the running example.
I'll use the correct password here.
And we get success.
That's it for this demo.